Next up, recall that we can pass props
down to child components, for example,
if we have a user, and the user's name
is Mary, we can pass Mary as a prop.
And then it will show up here in
the structure from your component, and
also because we are using TypeScript,
we can use User Probe and
explicitly type Mary's name as a string.
And a useCallback hook,
is a react hook for
memorizing interactions
within a reaction opponents.
Now next up, when we save a mood options,
you want to also record their timestamps.
So let's create a new type for
the mood option with the timestamp.
So let's open our types file and
export another type called
mood option with timestamp.
And this will have the mood
which will be of type,
mood option type, and
the times stamp would just be a number.
Next up in our home screen,
we want to use a used data variable
to actually store our mode list.
So let's in our screens,
let's find the home screen.
And let's create a used state variable.
So we'll do const moodList, setMoodList,
and we'll do React .useState, and
we'll start with an empty right.
Again we need to tell moodList
what type this is, so
we can do it by passing a moodList
mood option with timestamp array.
As the type to useState, so
now when I hover over moodList is
going to tell me what type it is.
Next up,
we want to add a useCallback hook,
to handle when you select a new mode.
So in the home file in the home screen,
let's do const handleSelectMood and
we'll do a React.useCallback.
And then this will have the selected mood,
which will be of type moodOption.
Empty dependencies you are right for now.
I will just do setMoodList and
remember for
useState variables,
you can pass in either the new variable,
or we can pass in a function
takes in the current ones.
So current list, and we can append our
selected mood to the current list.
So we'll return current.
So will the current and we'll also
need to add the timestamp to our mood,
so we'll do mood,
which is this selected mood and
timestamp, which will be Date.now.
And notice that I actually forgot that we
created this moodOption, with a timestamp.
And because PostScript I immediately
knew that I messed up, so
that saved me some debugging time.
Now let's pass handleSelectMood
into our MoodPicker.
And if we open our MoodPicker,
this is now a property of MoodPicker.
So we'll create a type for the props.
So we'll do type MoodPickerProps equals,
and
we'll do handleSelectMood.
So this takes in the mood,
which will be off type MoodOptionType.
I think this was MoodOption, and
then it returns nothing, so we use void.
Now we'll pass this type into React.FC.
And we can also D structure,
handleSelectMood from here, and
now on our button so our Choose button,
we can do OnPress and
we'll do handleSelectMood,
and we'll pass in.
Select the mood, okay.
Now this is telling me that argument
with type MoodOptionType or
undefined is not assignable
primary to MoodOptionType.
And this is because this
function is saying,
okay, we definitely need a MoodOption, but
notice that selected could be undefined.
So this is another thing with TypeScript
tells me that, okay ,what about if someone
calls this function, but SelectedMood
is undefined, what should I do then?
So I'm actually going to pull
this out to a useCallback,
so, let's, well, actually not.
So, we can do is here we'll turn
this into a proper function,
And we'll do, if selected so if this is
not undefined, only then we'll call it and
notice the TypeScript now
knows that this is undefined.
This is not going to be undefined in here
cuz it's passed this if statement and
this will work.
And lastly in our home,
let's also print out the MoodList just so
we see what's being added.
So let's import text, and
underneath the MoodPicker,
let's just do MoodList.map item.
And lets do Text and
item.mood, and let's
also add the timestamps.
Let's do item.timestamp,
it's called new date on it,
cuz it's just going to be a number,
and then we need to also
call to string to string so
it will be something that we can look at.
And let's add a key to text so
whenever you map over anything,
you need to add in a key.
So we'll do item.timestamp,
so item.mood is an object,
so I need to do item.mood.emoji.
There we go, so now when added,
you'll see that I'll get to the emoji and
also the timestamp.
So what we'd also like is
once you've selected a mood,
it should deselect the background.
So let's in the MoodPicker component,
let's pull this on press
out into a useCallback.
So let's do it, const
Let me just check what I called it,
sorry, handleSelect.
So, let's do const handleSelect
= React.useCallback.
And let's copy this OnPress and
select, so put that in here.
So we'll set SelectedMood and
also let's set it to undefined so
we'll unset the selectedState.
So let's do, set SelectedMood and
undefined, and
we'll also want to update
dependencies array.
All right, so now when we select it,
it will deselect the state
>> Can you please explain
the use of useCallback here?
>> So I tend to wrap all the functions
that are inside React components into
useCallback,
>> Really therefore memorizing
the functions, so that basically
obviously for React component.
Every time something changes,
like instantly React components or
props change,
then the whole component gets run.
So if you have a bunch of things here,
a bunch of functions, every single
function that you have gets re initialized
if you're using arrow functions.
So for useCallback and use my own all of
those hooks like the purpose of them,
is that if none of these dependencies
changed, then don't re initialize it.
So when you have lots
of complicated things,
it will just be a performance enhancement